
# P2P
- P2P networks works don't have a server, which would provide centralized coordination in a traditional client-server model Instead, it is a distributed application architecture that partitions tasks or workloads between peers
- Each peer has equal privileges and each has equal power.
- each peer designates a porion of their resources as available for consumption by other nodes in the network. 
	- ex. can share resources like processing power, disk storage or network bandwidth
- Peers are both suppliers and consumers of resources, in contrast to the traditional client-server model in which the consumption and supply of resources is divided. Put another way, each node acts as both a client and a server.
- P2P networks implement an overlay network, whose nodes are a subset of the nodes found in the physical network.
- data is still exchanged over TCP/IP, but P2P nodes can communicate directly at L7 by using the logical overlay links (each logical overlay link corresponds to a physical link of the underlying network.)
- ex. WiFi Direct, Skype
- Because there is no server, other strategies must be taken to accomplish tasks that would otherwise be handled by the server, such as login
	- To carry out login duties, a P2P network has what's called a Login Server

## Place in history
- P2P networks became popular with Napster, because the more traditional way to use the internet is more heavily regulated and corporately-owned. This means that Napster could skirt a lot of the authorities on the matter. 
