
# Session
- When user logs in, the server creates a session for the user. The sessionId is stored on a cookie in the user's browser. That cookie gets sent with each request to the server, where it gets compared against what is in the db.
- sessions are not an option for mobile apps.

- sessions are stateful (unlike JWTs, which are stateless)
	- This means that one of the communicating parties must keep track of (store) information about the current state, and save information about session history.
- Sessions piggyback off of stateless HTTP requests to make a stateful connection.
	- anal: the way TCP on top of IP
- When there is an active session, the server responds to the request with an ETag (entity tag), which is an id corresponding to a particular "version" of data. If the data arrives and it is identical to the ETag, then we know it is the same as the cached version.
- In a session-based workflow, a session is active until the user hits the logout button

## Persistent Session Store
a place to store all session-related data (but persistent so it doesn't get erased when the user closes the tab or app)
- session store is like the next evolution after cookies. Cookies were being used to remember user's preferences and some searching data about them. When those client-side cookies reached their capacity, session storage starting taking over for that sort of data storage about a user.

# Resources
[A new session should be created during user authentication](https://rules.sonarsource.com/typescript/type/Vulnerability/RSPEC-5876)