
An object is a persistent entity in the Kubernetes system. Each object represents a part of the state of our cluster, and all of them together represent the whole desired state.

Objects can describe:
- What containerized applications are running (and on which [[nodes|k8s.node.worker]])
- The resources available to those applications
- The policies around how those applications behave (e.g. restart policies, upgrades, [[fault tolerance|deploy.distributed.fault-tolerance]] etc.)

An object is a "record of intent"— it is our way of declaring the cluster's desired state.
- once you create the object, the Kubernetes system will constantly work to ensure that object exists.

To create, read or modify an object, we interact with the [[Kubernetes API|k8s.node.master.components.api-server]].
- If we are using [[k8s.kubectl]], calls to the API will be made for us.

Almost every object should take this shape:
```js
{
  spec: {
    // desired state
  },
  status: // current state of the object, managed by the control plane
}
```

Even though we can create services by running `kubectl expose`, we should typically follow a documented approach by using YAML files.

## Fields
### `selector` 
```yml
selector:
  matchLabels:
    app: hellok8s
```

What we are doing in this field is telling Kubernetes that this object is managing all the pods that have a label called `app` with the value `hellok8s`. This is what links our object to pods.
- Labels are simply key-value pairs that you define for your pods, and that’s what is used to find all the pods that a Deployment needs to look after.

