
### Types
The "normal" regex is Perl-Compatible Regex (PCRE)
- may be contrasted with Basic Regular Expressions (BRE)
- Vim Regex largely follows BRE

#### BRE
The main difference between the two is that BRE tends to treat more characters as literals - an "a" is an "a", but also a "(" is a "(", not a special character - and so involves more backslashes to give them "special" meaning.


- **magic** means we don't have to escape a character for it to take on its special meaning. **nomagic** means we have to escape, because otherwise the character will be taken literally
    - ***ex.*** with magic, `.` will mean "stand in for any character". with nomagic, it will literally mean "match the `.` character"
    - this makes sense, because with magic, a lot of cool stuff is happening that we have no idea how it's being done. Without magic, it's just looking for a character
- `\V` Verbatim Switch - only `\` has special meaning (ie. very nomagic)
    - prevent regex symbols from taking over - `/\Va.k.a` (equivalent to `/a\.k\.a\.`)
    - in regex, `.` means "match any character". making a verbatim search removes that functionality
    - when we use `\V`, it means for the following search, only `\` will have a special meaning
- `\v` Literal Switch - all characters (except word characters (**[a-zA-Z_]**)) have special meaning (ie. very magic)
- delimit words - since the word "the" appears in "these", if we wanted to just search for the word "the", we can use delimiters
    - `/\v<the>`
- ignore case - `/search\c`
- enforce case - `/search\C`
- Anything that matches inside of parentheses is automatically assigned to a temporary silo.
    - we can reference these matches in any later commands, such as a `:%S` search and replace command
    - We can reference the captured text within the first set of parens as `\1` (and `\2` for the second set of parens, and so on) 
    - `\0` refers to the entire match, whether or not there were parens
    - tip: use `%` to not capture the following parens
        - imagine we want to find and replace all occurrences of a first and last name, then replace it by the format `LAST, FIRST`. Notice the where we use and omit the `%` in order to control which matches are going to the `\1` and `\2` registers. Here, we don't care whether "Drew" or "Andrew" was matched, so we don't bother registering it.
            - `/\v(%(And|D)rew) (Neil)`
            - `:%s//\2, \1/g`

### Character Classes (make the letter capital to negate the character (ex. `\S` for non-whitespace char)
- whitespace char - `\s`
- digit - `\d`
- hex-digit - `\x`
- word character (alphanumeric + underscore) - `\w`
- alphabetic char - `\a`
- lowercase char - `\l`
- uppercase char - `\u`

# Word boundaries
- `pattern` - the regex text that we type into the search field
- `match` - any text in the document that is highlighted as a result of the search
- `<`/`>` - match the beginning/end of a word

## Lookaheads/Lookbehinds
- while the boundaries of a match normally correspond with the start and end of a pattern, we can use `\zs` and `\ze` to crop the beginning and end of a match, making the new match a subset of the pattern
    - ex. search for matches of "eagle", but only when it follows the word "bald"
        - `/bald \zseagle`()
        - In this example, "bald eagle" still forms part of the pattern, but only the word "eagle" is matched
    - ex. search for everything inside quotes, without the quotes themselves
        - `/\v"\zs[^"]+\ze"`

### Backreference
- allow you to match a particular pattern, then use a variable that refers back
    to it
    - Say we wanted to match an html tag and its content. Since there is
        repetition in an opening and closing tag (`<div>`/`</div>`), we can use
        a back reference to capture `div` in a variable, in order to use it
        later in the regex pattern
- a related, but distinct term.

# Fine slicing
#### Character Set
- match any character specified - `[a-zA-Z0-9]`
- match either an `f` or an `o` - `(f|o)`
- search for any 6 of the preceding characters - `{6}`
    - ex. `/\v#([a-fA-F0-9]{6})` will match any hex code
- search for between 4 and 6 matches of the preceding character - `{6,8}`
- search for at least 6 matches of the preceding character - `{6,}`
    - In other words, leave upper range unbounded
- negate the following search - `^`
- multiple occurrences of the same character
    - 0 or 1 times (ie. it is optional) -s `?`
    - 0 or more times - `*`
    - 1 or more - `+`
- match any character - `.`
- match any character 0 or more times - `.*`
    - doesn't have to be the same character many times to work
        - ex. `.*dog` matches `yyydog` and `yfwdog`

# Useful Regex Patterns
- `ag '\{\s.*ListView.*from\s.react-native.'` - search for a non-default
    exported module from a specific module
