
There are 2 types of pre-rendering that Next offers:
- static generations - The `about` page is identical no matter who views that page. - Server-side rendering - HTML is generated by the server on each request.
- Client-side rendering - as vanilla React does, we can still opt to use CSR if advantageous.

### Static Site Generation (SSG)
The idea is "Why does the html need to be generated on the client, when we can leverage the server to do it beforehand? (ie. at build time)"
- this is the default, thus recommended option

If your page shows frequently updated data, and the page content changes on every request, you *must* use SSR.

Statically generated pages can be cached by CDN

`getStaticProps` is run at build time.

Examples:
- Marketing pages
- Blog posts and portfolios
- E-commerce product listings
- Help and documentation

### Server-Side Rendering (SSR)
Here, Next.js pre-renders a page on each request. It will be slower because the page cannot be cached by a CDN, but the pre-rendered page will always be up-to-date. 

To use Server-side Rendering for a page, you need to export an async function called `getServerSideProps`. This function will be called by the server on every request.

#### Usage
```ts
function Page({ data }) {
  // Render data...
}

// This gets called on every request
export async function getServerSideProps() {
  // Fetch data from external API
  const res = await fetch(`https://.../data`)
  const data = await res.json()

  // Pass data to the page via props
  return { props: { data } }
}

export default Page
```

When you run `yarn build`, it generates 1 HTML document for every route on your site. Every side page, every blog post, every store item — an HTML file is created for each of them, ready to be served up immediately.

`getServerSideProps` is run on every request
